Entrepreneurs: Isaac Lewis
Expressed interest: Will Sandys

ChineseVille combines online games with language learning. The initial motivation came from my own experiences of studying Mandarin, where rote-learning of characters is time-consuming and tedious. ChineseVille makes language learning more enjoyable - even addictive - by incorporating gameplay elements, constant feedback, and competition with friends. 

ChineseVille is a Facebook application with two elements; testing with flashcards and a simple village-building game. As you expand your vocabulary, you attract more people to your village, and unlock new building types; you can also do battle with your friends to see who has the best knowledge of Chinese. Special algorithms are used to make memorization more reliable, by calculating the optimum revision time for each item.

ChineseVille is currently in beta; my focus at this stage is iterating the product design based on user feedback, to achieve market fit. In future I plan to incorporate multiple languages, as well as premium features such as speech and writing practice.

Competitors in the online language-learning space include Smart.fm, ChinesePod, Skritter, and nciku.com. Although the market is growing, my survey of language students suggested that only 10% of them regularly use websites to study. However, over 2/3 log in to Facebook every day; this suggests that integration with the Facebook platform will provide access to customers not served by the incumbents. Incorporating viral features, such as rewarding users for recruiting their friends, could enable very rapid growth.

I estimate the number of Chinese learners on Facebook to be around 2.4 million (based on studies of Chinese as a second language worldwide). My target for the end of Year 1 is 150,000 users with 3000 premium accounts (paying around £5/month); Y2 target is 600,000 users and 12,000 premium accounts, for an annual turnover of £720,000. Potential costs include web hosting, advertising, and employing front-end designers and education experts.
